STATEMENT OF THE KASHAG ON THE 50th ANNIVERSARY OF THE TIBETAN NATIONAL UPRISING DAY


Today, 10 March 2009, is the 50th
anniversary of the Tibetan people’s peaceful uprising against the
repression and occupation of Tibet by the People’s Republic of China.
On this important anniversary, the Kashag pays its tribute and respect
to those brave men and women who have sacrificed their lives for the
national, religious and political cause of the Tibetan people in
general, and, particularly, to those who have lost their lives during
the non-violent protests carried out in the three traditional provinces
of Tibet since last 10 March. We also express our solidarity with those
Tibetans who continue to suffer hardships, torture and repression. The
Kashag also extends its heartfelt sentiments and regards to all the
Tibetans in and outside Tibet.

 

Looking
back on the good and bad times experienced by the Tibetan people during
the past 50 years, one witnesses numerous unimaginable changes that
have taken place. Since the occupation of Tibet by the People’s
Republic of China in 1949, the Chinese government unleashed a series of
coercive and repressive campaigns under different forms and names, such
as “suppression of reactionaries, democratic reform, class struggle,
Cultural Revolution”, communes, imposition of martial law,
infrastructure development and Western Development Programmes. All
these were aimed at sinicising Tibet and eliminating the Tibetan
identity. That the Tibetan people endured such depths of untold
physical and mental hardships and sufferings under these campaigns are
clearly indelible in the minds of all Tibetans and, therefore, need no
repetition.

 

Whatever
numerous methods, such as oppression, torture, deception, propaganda
and brainwashing the Chinese government adopted, these, however, failed
to change, even slightly, the mentality and inner strength of the
Tibetan people. This is evident by the fact that people’s faith in
religion, pride in Tibetan identity, and, especially their faith in His
Holiness the Dalai Lama have remained unshakeable for three
generations. This strength of the Tibetan people is not only cherished
in their hearts but is also openly expressed and continued to be
expressed, regardless of the danger it poses to their lives, through
non-violent protests such as the ones that swept Tibet since last
March. This has attracted the interest and support from the
international community, which gives new hope and faith to the Tibetan
people. These protests also constitute the most effective response to
the massive propaganda that says China has “liberated” the Tibetan
people who were ignorant and backward, that it has brought modern
development, and that, except a few separatists, most Tibetans regard
the Chinese government and the Communist Party as the Buddha. The
Kashag admires and appreciates the courage and determination of the
Tibetans in Tibet. We believe that they will continue to keep their
courage and determination.

 

When
nearly a hundred thousand Tibetans came into exile in 1959, they not
only faced severe problems of climatic change, language barrier and
difficulty in earning livelihood, but also became strangers without a
friend. As everything was so strange that Tibetans recalled the old
Tibetan saying; “except the sky and earth, everything else was
unfamiliar.”  However, soon after, many
settlements, monastic and educational institutions were established in
the host countries. Presently in India, Nepal and Bhutan, there are
total of 49 Tibetan settlements, 223 monasteries including the great
monastic institutions, nunneries, and tantric
monasteries, 77 educational institutions in which modern education
blended with the traditional values are taught, 54 community health
centres and hospitals, 14 aged people home.
All the facilities are in place for the Tibetans to fulfil their
individual wishes and earn their livelihood. In addition, there are 11
Offices of Tibet around the world. The Tibetans living around the world
have successfully formed associations in their respective countries and
have been contributing towards the cause of Tibet. There are a large
number of Tibetan Buddhist centres as a result of the widespread
flourishing of Tibetan Buddhism in the world. These Buddhist centres
have helped not only in providing immediate and long-term happiness and
benefits to many people, but also in further gaining the goodwill and
support of the international people for Tibet and the Tibetans. There
is also an increasing number of the Tibet Support Groups.

 

Because
of the goodwill and support of the international people and the Tibet
Support Groups for the Tibetans and their culture, their democratic
governments are obliged to support the Tibetan cause. As a result, the
level of understanding of and support for the Tibetan cause has grown
considerably in the international community. This could not, however,
be accomplished with the hard work of Tibetan exiles alone. That this
was accomplished by the grace of His Holiness the Dalai Lama indicates
the depth and purity of spiritual bond between the Tibetan people and
the lineage of the Dalai Lama institution. The kindness of His Holiness
the Dalai Lama in appearing in human life at this crucial period in
Tibet’s history and winning the hearts of the people throughout the
world as well as his great work and his teachings on interdependence,
non-violence, and universal responsibility given to the people of the
world have received high recognition and numerous prizes and awards,
including the Nobel Peace Prize, from individuals and organisations,
governments, parliaments, universities, municipal councils, and NGOs in
numerous countries. This has contributed to the happiness and benefit
of human beings and has been beneficial to the Tibetan cause. The
Kashag feels that this is the appropriate occasion to remember all
this.

 

Transformation
of the Tibetan polity into a full functioning democratic system and our
just struggle into a non-violent one are outstanding achievements.
Because of this, the People’s Republic of China is not able to ignore
the issue of Tibet and the world is compelled to take an interest in
and express support for the issue of Tibet.

 

As
the framework of the Tibetan polity has now been transformed into a
genuine and full functioning democratic system, it has created a firm
basis for future popularly-elected political leaders to carry on the
Tibetan struggle for generations to come until the issue of Tibet is
resolved. The Central Tibetan Administration has enough resource to
meet its administrative expenses through the voluntary tax payment from
the exile Tibetans and the Corpus Fund.

 

Similarly,
with the kindness of His Holiness the Dalai Lama, thousands of
Tibetans, generation after generation, received the opportunity to
undergo traditional and modern education. Hundreds among them have
become professionals such as scholars, technicians, engineers,
administrators, businessmen, doctors, and nurses. Efforts are being
made, more than ever before, to keep producing more professionals in
the future. The foundation of human resource is being built for
continuing the struggle for the just cause of Tibet as well as
undertaking the development activities for future Tibet.

 

His
Holiness’ long association with eminent modern scientists through
continued interaction has resulted in a series of dialogue and exchange
of ideas between Buddhism and modern science, which has provided a
basis for forging a strong bond between the two.

 

Viewing
Tibetan religion and culture and the Tibetan language, which is the
foundation of the above, as a threat, the leaders of the People’s
Republic of China have been putting every effort to wipe these out
completely. However, Tibetan religion and culture as well as language
is thriving and spreading just not in the Tibetan community but in the
world also. The above accomplishments that can be termed extraordinary
were achieved only due to the grace of His Holiness the Dalai Lama. We
cannot repay the kindness of His Holiness in our lifetime. On the
occasion of the 50th anniversary of the Tibetan people’s
peaceful uprising, the Kashag would like to take this opportunity to
express on behalf of all Tibetans in and outside Tibet our gratitude to
His Holiness the Dalai Lama, and beseech him to live long.

 

The
Kashag pays its tribute and appreciation to those public servants who
have, while overcoming all the challenges, rendered, and continue to
render sincere service under the guidance of His Holiness the Dalai
Lama during this crucial period.

 

The
Kashag, while briefly commemorating these achievements, express our
gratitude to His Holiness the Dalai Lama. The Kashag would like to
reiterate to the leadership of the People’s Republic of China that His
Holiness the Dalai Lama is the supreme leader and the sole spokesperson
of the six million Tibetans.

 

According
to civilized behaviour, it is the public who choose their
representatives instead of being forced to accept one. If the Tibetans
in Tibet are given opportunity to speak up freely without fear of
retribution, the Chinese authorities would certainly get a clear
picture as to who is the leader who can represent the six million
Tibetans. Although, Tibetans from all the parts of Tibet have made,
despite having no freedom, this very clear since March last year, the
Chinese leaders have been insensitive and foolishly stubborn to accept
this. This cannot fool the public.

 

It
is evident that the baseless accusation of His Holiness the Dalai Lama,
severe harassment of the monks, nuns and the lay people with the
imposition of repressive campaigns such as “patriotic re-education” and
strike hard, celebration of the “emancipation” of millions of Tibetan
people as “Serfs Emancipation Day,” a move that offends the collective
sentiments of the Tibetans, on 28 March are all aimed at destabilising
and creating chaos in Tibet by a few individuals with overriding
self-interest. If the Tibetans, losing their patience, took to streets
in protest, the Chinese leaders will have the excuse to use
overwhelming force to crackdown.   

 

In the early mid-20th
century, there was no big gap between the peasants in Tibet and China.
Moreover, the Tibetan peasants enjoyed more freedom and better living
conditions. Telling the international community that the traditional
Tibetan society was similar to serfdom and feudalism as that which
prevailed in medieval China and Europe is a big lie.  The
Tibetans, who were largely engaged in handicrafts, agriculture and
pastoralism as means of livelihood, had to pay some tax and were
required to perform collective community work. Apart from that, no
undue demand and pressure was on them. Tibetans enjoyed sustainable
livelihood without being extremely rich or extremely poor. The Tibetan
peasants belonged to three categories: state, individual and monastic
estates. Each of the estate holders, in turn, looked after the interest
of its peasants. Since the existence of Tibet until 1959, there had not
been a time when the Tibetan peasants lost their freedom to live in
fear and intimidation. Nor did they face starvation.

 

Most
of the Tibetan exiles and those who have escaped into exile risking
their lives during the past two decades are peasants, nomads, craftsmen
and petty business people. Only few are the feudal lords. The
participants of last year’s non-violent protests that took place across
Tibet were peasants and nomads. There was almost no one who was the
descendant of the feudal lords. If the Tibetan “serfs” are leading a
happy life after their so-called emancipation, and if it is worth
commemorating the “Serf Emancipation Day”, then why those who escape
into exile and who participated in the massive protests were peasants
and nomads?

 

We
are concerned about the preservation and promotion of the valuable
Tibetan religion and culture, which has the potential of bringing
benefit and happiness to all sentient beings. We acknowledge the fact
that not all aspects of our traditional Tibetan society are good. Far
from restoring, there is no trace of the obsolete social and political
system in the exile Tibetan community.

 

As
a part of their mass propaganda, the Chinese government has been
organising an exhibition of Tibetan prisons and the punishment meted
out. However, the reality is that the size of Nangze Shar Prison in
Lhasa, heavily used in the Chinese propaganda, could accommodate not
more than a score of prisoners. In fact, the total number of prisoners
in the whole of Tibet before 1959 hardly crossed hundred. After the
so-called “liberation” and “emancipation” of the Tibetan “serfs”,
prisons have come up in every part of Tibet. Looking at the size of
prisons and the number of prisoners in Lhasa only, it is clear which
period in Tibetan history is the most oppressed and darkest. In this 21st century of information revolution, the ideology that one-lie-told-hundred-times-will-become-truth can no longer be sustained.    

 

His
Holiness the Dalai Lama laid down, after much consideration and
deliberation, a mutually beneficial Middle-Way policy in the early
1970s that takes into consideration the peaceful co-existence of the
Tibetan and the Chinese people and the achievement of future
aspirations of the Tibetan people within the framework of the People’s
Republic of China. This policy was endorsed, after holding a series of
extensive discussions, by the representatives of the general public,
including the then Tibetan Parliament-in-Exile and the Kashag. In 1979,
when the late Chinese paramount leader Deng Xiaoping proposed that
“except independence, all other issues can be resolved through
negotiations”, the Tibetan side was ready with a response.

 

Since
then with the establishment of contacts, several rounds of talks were
held and fact-finding delegations were despatched. However, these did
not bear any concrete results, and the contact eventually broke off for
over eight years. Since the restoration of contacts in 2002, we have
engaged in eight formal rounds of talks and one informal round of
talks, following the policy of one official channel and one agenda.
These talks and contacts not only helped in clarifying the suspicions
and broadening the understanding of our respective views and positions,
but also provided an opportunity to clearly explain the essence of the
Middle-Way policy of His Holiness the Dalai Lama.

 

After
knowing the concerns and problems the Chinese government expressed on
the Strasbourg Proposal, we addressed their concerns by giving a new
document. This proposal as requested by the Chinese side during the 7th
round of talks is called Memorandum on Genuine Autonomy for the Tibetan
People, which is within the scope of the Constitution of the People’s
Republic of China. This document was given to the Chinese government on
31 October 2008 during the eighth round of talks. This Memorandum,
which has now been made public by both sides, is the ultimate demand by
the Tibetan side, after due consideration and accommodation of Chinese
concerns. Not even a single part of the demands mentioned in the
Memorandum can be compromised, and there is no need to do so either as
the articles of the Memorandum were prepared exactly in accordance with
the provisions of the Constitution of the People’s Republic of China
and its Law on National Regional Autonomy. There is no single demand
that is not a legal.

 

If
the Chinese side does not abide by its Constitution and the laws, we
can do nothing. However, if the current government of the People’s
Republic of China respects its Constitution and other related laws and
regulations, it must accept the Memorandum we proposed. Calling the
Memorandum a demand for “half-independence” and “disguised
independence” or “covert independence”, without providing legal and
rational explanations, is not a statement made by a right-thinking
people.

 

Because
of the political upheaval that shook Tibet last year and we being not
able to achieve any concrete result in the Sino-Tibetan dialogue
process, His Holiness the Dalai Lama, in order to again solicit public
opinion in a democratic way as to what future course of action we
should take, convened a Special Meeting of the Tibetans in Diaspora in
last November under the provision of Article 59 of the Charter of the
exile Tibetans. About 600 representatives of the Tibetans in exile
participated in the meeting and held extensive discussions for six
days. In addition to collecting written suggestions from the exile
Tibetans, efforts were made to collect suggestions, as far as possible,
from the Tibetans in Tibet as well.

 

The
outcome of this process was that over 80 percent of the suggestions
advocated the continuation of the Middle-Way policy. Similarly, a
majority of the Tibet Support Groups supported the Middle-Way Approach.
As we have received public mandate, we will now pursue this policy with
great confidence. We are, therefore, ready to continue our contact and
talk on the Memorandum we proposed to the Chinese government. We will
provide clarification on the Memorandum whenever required by the
Chinese side, and continue our efforts towards achieving a meaningful
national regional autonomy for all the Tibetans. The continuation of
contact solely depends upon the action of the People’s Republic of
China, and they should assume full responsibility for it.

 

We
will further carry out our activities of keeping direct contacts with
the Chinese people in order for them to clearly understand the issue of
Tibet and not to be misled by the massive propaganda of the Chinese
government.

 

Looking
at the suffering that the Tibetan people undergo as a result of the
repressive measures implemented by the authorities of the People’s
Republic of China during the last few months, the Kashag, concerned
about the likely occurrence of fresh protests, issued statements of
appeal on 29 January and 21 February 2009 to the international
community, the Chinese authorites, and the Tibetans in and outside
Tibet to maintain peace and stability. His Holiness the Dalai Lama also
reiterated the same in his message to the Tibetans in and outside Tibet
during this Tibetan New Year. While appealing to all Tibetans to
maintain peace and stability with utmost tolerance, the Kashag urge the
Chinese authorities to immediately stop the harassment and torture of
the Tibetan people. The Kashag request the peace-loving people of the
world to pay attention to the situation in Tibet and persuade the
Chinese authorities to exercise restraint.

 

As
per the guidance of His Holiness the Dalai Lama that “we should hope
for the best and prepare for the worst”, all the Tibetan people in
Tibet and in exile should, while taking lessons from our experience of
past 50 years, come up with strategies and prepare ourselves with firm
commitment in treading the path of non-violence until the truth of the
issue of Tibet is resolved.

 

While
taking this opportunity, the Kashag would like to express its heartfelt
appreciation to the governments and the peoples across the world,
particularly India, for supporting the Tibetans. Finally, the Kashag
prays for the long life of His Holiness the Dalai Lama and the
spontaneous fulfilment of all his wishes. The Kashag also prays that
the day may dawn soon when the Tibetans in and outside Tibet will
celebrate their re-unification.

 

 

The Kashag

10 March 2009